When it's each jobs turn to execute,
a fresh instance is booted up using the docker image that's defined in the job.
This means by default that files in memory that are used
during the job are completely gone after the job completes.
Jobs cannot communicate directly with each other,
they are not even aware that the other job exists,
what came before or what is coming next.
In this way, every job is isolated from the other jobs and their parent workflows.
But sometimes we need jobs to have information from other jobs.
To solve this problem,
we have a few tools at our disposal.
We can use cache, workspace,
or third-party secret keeper tools
to accomplish some inter-job communication and file-sharing.
Let's talk about each one in a little bit more detail.
CircleCI gives us an option to share folders and
files between jobs using something they call cache.
You can think of CircleCI's cache like a USB memory stick that you can
plug in temporarily during a job and then remove it when you're done.
The files stay on the USB even though the machine running the job was destroyed.
In CircleCI, the cache option only remembers
your files during the execution of the pipeline.
After that, they're gone.
Cache is great for saving files that might take time to download or process in each job,
like npm packages in a NodeJS project.
With cache, the key names are important
because you need to be able to retrieve the files later on.
CircleCI gives us a few ways to ensure cache keys are unique and easy to reference.
I'll leave a table with some of these variables in the text below the video.
You can also read more about them in the CircleCI documentation.
Here we're looking at an example of how to save the contents of a folder to cache.
It's forming the name of the key using
a built-in function that inserts the checksum value of a file after the prefix,
then we just specify the path to save.
Next, imagine another job that needs that cached folder.
We provide the key with the checksum and CircleCI provides the cached folder,
it restores the files or folders we cached to the same location from whence they came.
It's important to note that cache is immutable,
so you won't be able to modify the value of a cache key after it's created.
For example, you could save a folder of zip files with the key zips,
but if you want to add a zip file to the cache using the same key zips,
sorry, it won't work.
CircleCI will not throw an error,
but it also will not update the cache.
I repeat, it will not throw an error and it will not update the cache,
this can cause confusion, so be careful.
How about the workspace?
CircleCI's workspace is similar to
the cache in that you can store files and folders from job to job.
However, workspaces differ in that there's no key,
only the folder or the filename.
When you restore the workspace,
you have equal access to all the files in
the workspace without the need for a key to retrieve them.
While cache lasts only until the end of a pipeline execution,
workspace files stick around for 15 days.
The workspace is mutable,
meaning you can override a file or folder and the change will be persisted,
and you can use globs.
Take a look at the code for workspaces.
We provide a root,
which is somewhat of a virtual folder where we store the files,
then we provide a list of files or folders we want to store.
It's nice that we can use globs here,
which makes it easy to select files recursively.
When it's time to retrieve the files,
we just attach the workspace and tell it which route to use,
then we're able to use the files as if they were always there.